MEMORY MANAGEMENT:
every program lives in files on the disk until it is executed. execution of a program means loading it into memory, which consists of copying bytecode and reserving memory space for mutable variables.
there are four memory segments in a typical program architecture: text, data, stack, and heap. the text and data segments are for code and fixed size variables respectively. The stack and heap are the only segments that have a dynamic memory size, and they grow towards each other from both directions of memory addresses such that an address space can be represented by a linear number line. When you create a variable in global space (outside of a function), it will be static sized and efficiently packed in the data segment. if a fixed size variable is created inside of a function or code body, it will live inside the stack. if a variable has an unknown or fluctuating size it can be placed in the heap for long term storage in the program. because python is an abstract language and has memory management built in, you do not need to worry about lifetimes and garbage collection of unnecessary/leftover heap variables.

as such, it is best practice to carefully place variables so the heap doesn't overflow(then the program will consume more ram) and so the data segment is sufficiently utilized.

the data segment is good for variables that will be used in many places across different execution traces. aka the reliable storage box that always fits perfectly in the corner.
the stack is for temporary variables that only exist until the function they are created in returns and they are destroyed. 
the heap is for

EXECUTION FLOW: [IMPORTANT]
in a program execution is known to have a 'flow', which follows functions and goes through condtional branches to reach other unpredetermined function paths. to keep control flow simple and make debugging easy, this program will have a loose REST API structure. there will be code files that directly manage resources, logical semantics files that reference those low level resource files, and a third branch of files that interfaces with the entry point to establish 3 levels of abstraction. the point of this is to ensure that "database.py" doesnt include functions from "auth.py". if that were the case, auth.py may be refactored or changed, and we wouldnt know which code-level of the program would have the broken link. the second layer is for code files that use the first layer files to perform an action. for example seeding a user into the database would have a second-level file "user.py", containing the function "def seedusers()" which would reference contents from both database.py and auth.py in one place

RETRIEVING .ENV VALUES EXAMPLE:
DATA_ROOT_PATH = os.getenv('DATA_ROOT_PATH')
where .env format looks like
DATA_ROOT_PATH="/data"